What do we have here in the letter that Paul wrote under inspiration to the congregation in Philippi a letter that breathes love and
That motivates us to increase in displaying godly joy
Now that may not always be easy because life in this system of things can be very difficult
In fact, perhaps you or your family or close friends are facing a galaeth-like
Challenge at this moment
But think a little bit more about the context and who wrote this letter to the Philippians where we're told to always rejoice
It was the Apostle Paul
Do you know where Paul was when he wrote the letter?
Not in any comfortable office. He was in a prison likely in Rome
Yet Paul's positive attitude makes it very clear that deep-seated joy
Does not depend on our circumstances
But we do know that cultivating joy requires personal effort
How so
Well think about it. We know that joy that pleasant emotion that we feel when we receive
Something good or we anticipate receiving good things is a product of holy spirit
So we have to do something in order to obtain more holy spirit. We have to pray for it constantly
And we can do that constantly without ever doubting that Jehovah wants to give us more holy spirit
Because Jesus assured us that he's a tender Heavenly Father who gives generously to his children who ask for it
But in addition to praying constantly what more can we do
Well like the Apostle Paul even when we're in the midst of trying circumstances
We need to think about good things our blessings
And we need to talk with our brothers and sisters about those blessings
For a few moments, let's do that
Let's put aside for a moment any distracting worry or challenge or obstacle that we're facing
And let's savor three special blessings that Jehovah has given all of us as his people
Our first blessing is alluded to at Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 18
You might take your eyes there to Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 18
There in contrast with the path or the way of the wicked one
We're told that the path of the righteous
That's your path. That's my path
Is like the bright morning light that grows brighter and brighter until full daylight
Well, this reminds us that we have all been recipients of spiritual enlightenment
And that's quite a contrast to Satan's system which currently is in dense spiritual darkness
Think about what we enjoy because of what Jehovah has given us in the way of spiritual enlightenment
We know things that the world has no clue about
We know that Jehovah is our God the God who causes to become and can cause you and me to become whatever's needed
To fulfill his good purpose and to bring us joy
We know about Jesus the powerful angels the establishment of the kingdom in 1914
A real government none of this is any mystery to us. We know the truth
We know that the big issue is not what we may see in the headlines of the world's newspapers
The big issue has to do with universal sovereignty and who will we choose to support Jehovah's side or Satan's side
Thanks to the gift of spiritual enlightenment a path that keeps getting brighter and brighter for us as we walk closely with Jehovah and his
Organization we know why we suffer why we die and how temporary all of these challenging circumstances are
We are confident there will be a resurrection
So no matter what happens in this system of things to us personally or to those whom we love
Jehovah will undo all the damage
Very easily
Because he can do so and he wants to do so
Of course, there's many things that we don't yet know about the future and Jehovah's details with regard to us personally
We don't know the exact date of the end of this wicked system of things
But our purpose in life is no secret
We know what our purpose in life is. We're going to live forever
So that we can praise and fear Jehovah for all eternity
Now what do you think as we ponder our gift our blessing of spiritual enlightenment? Is it ordinary or is it extraordinary?
That's a gift that when we think about it and when we talk about it increases our joy
Let's consider a second spiritual blessing
It's referred to at Isaiah chapter 60 and verse 22. Please read that with me
Isaiah chapter 60 and verse 22
The little one will become a thousand and the small one a mighty nation. I myself Jehovah will speed it up in its own time
What's the blessing as foretold we are seeing spiritual growth our spiritual family is getting larger and larger by the day
in fact on average during the 2017 service year each week
five thousand four hundred were baptized in symbol of their dedication to Jehovah
And in harmony with the prophecy this growth will accelerate
Well, what does that mean for us?
It means that our work here at Bethel at remote translation offices at facilities doing maintenance and cleaning and caring for
These beautiful facilities dedicated to Jehovah's worship at the assembly halls is urgent
Necessary work that supports our growing spiritual family
It's another one of the blessings that Jehovah has given you and me
This blessing of seeing firsthand the growth of our spiritual family and being able to support it
Well consider in that same chapter of Isaiah chapter 60 an additional blessing a third mentioned in verse 17
Instead of the copper I will bring in gold and instead of the iron I will bring in silver
Instead of the wood copper and instead of the stones iron and I will appoint peace as your overseers and righteousness as your task assigners
Have you seen the fulfillment of this prophecy during this special time the conclusion of the system of things
Indeed, we have we have seen experienced
Improvements in organizational arrangements
Some in our families of congregation and here at Bethel remember when a congregation had a congregation servant
And not a body of elders when countries had a branch servant and not a branch committee
When direction was given often by the president of the watch tower a Bible and track society rather than by a clearly established governing body
During the 1970s though there were improvements
Direction in the congregations was given principally by a body of elders not by one individual
Think of more recent organizational improvements having to do with our theocratic schools
The school for kingdom evangelizers is another one of those recent organizational improvements
It's incredible to think that it was seven years ago in July 2011
That the then new school the bible school for Christian couples was inaugurated in Patterson Bethel
But then just two years later in 2013 the governing body approved the merger of the bible school for Christian couples
With the bible school for single brothers and now we have what is known as the school for kingdom evangelizers
And what has resulted
Increase strengthening of congregations
diligent workers in the harvest caring for assistance with maintenance of facilities
supporting the work and foreign and indigenous language fields
You know thinking about this and those other blessings we've just discussed briefly
Reminds me of the example in the scriptures of the experience of the unnamed and poor widow of Zarifath during the time of the prophet Elijah
In faith though her circumstances were dire she used her last bit of flour and oil to make bread for Jehovah's prophet and what happened
As Elijah had promised Jehovah added to her supply of food so that there was enough to feed her her son and the prophet
The large jar of flour did not run out and the small jar of oil did not run dry
Brothers and sisters each of us has a figurative jar of blessings a jar of
Joy's that is never going to run out
Regularly we need to stop and think about what's in our jar of blessings. We need to talk about them
As our kingdom song 111 says our reasons for joy are abundant and they are like riches increasing in worth
So like the Apostle Paul even if our circumstances at this moment are very difficult
Incredibly with Jehovah's help you and I can always rejoice